# tomlparse.el

A straight forward toml parser fore elisp


## Synopsis

This package aims to provide a straight forward feature complete and stable
parser for the wide spread toml config language.  The idea is to provide three
elisp functions `(tomlparse-file)`, `(tomlparse-buffer)` and
`(tomlparse-string)` functions, that behave similar to `(json-parse-string)`
and `(json-parse-buffer)` but read toml rather than json.


## Why a new toml parser â€“ isn't there toml.el?

I am aware of toml.el aka [emacs-toml](https://github.com/gongo/emacs-toml) and
I've been using it and I even have contributed to it.  However, the package is
not feature complete, so it cannot parse all valid toml files.  The maintainer
does not seem to be interested anymore.  Moreover, now that we have
[Tree-sitter](https://tree-sitter.github.io/tree-sitter/) available in Emacs
29+ we can write parsers way more easy with way less lines of code. (Actually
the name "tomlparse.el" is technically not correct, as the parsing is done by
Tree-sitter.)


## Status

The thing seems to be feature complete (see [Limitations](#limitations).

After some practice test I will propose it to MELPa.  Be aware that this has
been written during three evenings after work and a couple of hours during the
following weekend..  So there can be issues.  Please report them.


## Installation

At the moment the most convenient method to install it is using
[straight.el](https://github.com/raxod502/straight.el). Put the following lines
into your startup file.

``` elisp
(use-package tomlparse
  :straight (tomlparse :type git :host github :repo "johannes-mueller/tomlparse.el"))
```

Eventually after some tests in real life I will propose it to MELPA.


## Limitations

The read functions read all the example of the [toml
spec](https://toml.io/en/v1.0.0) correctly.  There are a couple of valid test
files in [toml-test](https://github.com/toml-lang/toml-test) that are no
correctly read in or not read in at all.  This is due to shortcomings in the
tree sitter grammar and issues with escape sequences in string literals of the
TOML data.  The latter is especially relevant for Emacs versions < 30.1.

The shortcomings in tree sitter grammar I will report in the hope they will be
eventually fixed.  About the others I will see how relevant they are in
practice.  Please let me know if you have some kind of stake in there.


## Future plans

None.  Except maybe fixing the [limitations](#limitations).  I will fix bugs,
of course.  Otherwise we will see, if there will be a new version of the toml
language that becomes relevant.


## Contributing

As usual, issues and pull requests are welcome.
